Let's look at the solution to exercise 2 where we're going
to be pulling in data about a ATM visit topic from kafka.
The first thing I need to do is to start kafka.
I'm going to click this button.
I'm watching a spinning cursor down here.
That tells me it's in progress,
zookeeper is up, now, we're starting kafka.
Zookeeper is not needed for spark but it is needed for kafka.
We're still starting. That's what the little spinner is telling us.
While that's happening, I'm going to start up spark.
I've got the log file location copied from that.
I cut that file and it's done so I'm in a tail it and just watch it as it goes.
The master is still starting.
This is a normal message,
it happens pretty much every time but it still is able to run using the built-in classes.
Now, we've got our Spark URI,
where the master is reachable.
I'm going to copy that and them I'm going to control C to break out of tail.
Go to homework space spark sbin and start the worker and I've passed in the master URI,
if I say ps-ef.
Here I have multiple Java processes.
One of them is running spark, two of them are.
Let's repeat that.
This one here and this one,
if you could see beyond the terminal,
normally when you expand it,
you can see further to the right.
What you'll see beyond this java-8-open jdk-md6 is
the word spark further on to the right and when you see that on each of these,
that tells you, hey,
I've got spark running, there's spark in the path.
If you see one and two that's master and worker,
it doesn't matter which is which,
the fact is you've got both of them running.
The time may help you know which one because this is earlier than the other.
That's my master and that's the worker.
Going back to kafka, it looks like kafka is up and running.
Looking through the entries here,
you will see where it says that kafka started up successfully.
Kafka connect started as well,
which is pretty much the last step there so we're good to go.
Now, let's write the solution for this.
We've got our spark session imported so we're going to start by creating
a session and we're subscribing to the ATM visits topic.
I'm just going to name the application the same thing.
The only place you see that is when you're looking at logging for spark,
you're going to see that ATM visits show up.
That's the name of the application that it'll refer to later on.
Setting the log level,
now I'm going to read from kafka.
When I do that I get a data frame.
That's the result.
I am going to name the data frame something important that helps me remember what it is.
I'm calling this atmVisitsRawStreamingDataFrame.
Now I'm going to access the spark session and go to
the read stream where we can now access kafka.
We're going to say the format is kafka and that's when it
tells it to access the libraries that we've used.
They're special kafka libraries for spark to use and connecting with kafka.
Here's where we tell it the name of the server.
In our case, it's just local host with a port of 9092.
I'm going to subscribe to the topic and this is
where I actually need this to say ATM visits.
The application name doesn't matter very much.
Here it matters a lot that this is the right topic name.
We're going to tell it to read all the data that it can
find in kafka for this topic by saying
earliest rather than latest and then we're going to tell it to load that data frame.
The resulting data frame has raw binary data and we want to
convert that so I'm going to copy it to another data frame that's not binary.
That one I just called it atmVisitsStreamingDF.
Here I'm going to go ahead and cast the key from Kafka as
a string and the key for that is going to be the transaction ID.
I'm just going to call it transactionID.
You could just call it key if you wanted to but
it makes it more meaningful to give it a good name.
I'm going to cast the value as a string as well and this is the ATM location.
That's the value we're getting from kafka in this case.
Next, I want to go ahead and select everything into the console.
Let's do that, atmVisitsStreamingDF.writeStream.outputMode.
We're going to tell it to append as we go.
We want to append to the console.
We're going to tell it to start,
that starts the whole application
and we're going to tell it to run until it's told to stop.
I'm going ahead and save that python file.
Then we've got a script for us.
If we do LS we'll see submit-kafkaconsole.sh and run that script.
That just tells it,
then the libraries it makes it a little easier to give it the command
but you can run it by hand if you prefer but I'm going to run the script this time.
We have an error.
It says no such file or directory as kafkaconsole.py.
It's saying that the command is incorrect so I'm going to go and I opened that script
and it's saying home workspace
kafkaconsole.py and I'm just going to run
this command by hand just to see if the error goes away.
It still says that file doesn't exist.
If I LS, kafkaconsole.py is a file, there's a typo.
The F is in the wrong place so I'm going to rename that. There we go.
Now and just paste it in that same command
and it's loading a bunch of Java libraries to get everything started.
Now it's saying online nine.
There's an error.
Format is incorrect so we're going to save that.
It says atmVisitsRawStreamingDF is not defined and that's because there's a typo.
I'm going to save that.
I just hit up arrow and enter to repeat the same run command.
When you get to this registered endpoint,
that tells us we're waiting for
the output so the blinking cursor says it's still running.
Now, we've got some ATM visits so here's a transaction in the Philippines,
here's one in India, one in Ghana,
another in Ghana for a completely different charge.
One in Uganda, France,
New Mexico, South Africa.
There's our transaction ID and there's our location.
If you got this working, congratulations,
this is not easy when you're new to spark and kafka both at the same time.
I'm going to kill this and then we're done.